Document that WebHost.CreateDefaultBuilder will use port 5000 (#37661)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/compatibility/containers/8.0/aspnet-port.md

We also added the new `ASPNETCORE_HTTP_PORTS` environment variable as a simpler alternative to `ASPNETCORE_URLS`. The new variable expects a semicolon delimited list of ports numbers, while the older variable expects a more complicated syntax.

> Apps built using the older <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.WebHost.CreateDefaultBuilder?displayProperty=nameWithType> API won't respect the new `ASPNETCORE_HTTP_PORTS` environment variable. And now that `ASPNETCORE_URLS` is no longer set automatically, they'll switch to use a default port of 5000.

Author: ```suggestion
Apps built using the older <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.WebHost.CreateDefaultBuilder?displayProperty=nameWithType> API won't respect the new `ASPNETCORE_HTTP_PORTS` environment variable. And now that `ASPNETCORE_URLS` is no longer set automatically, they'll switch to use a default port of 5000, which is not accessible outside the container.
```

Author: Is this what you were going for @tmds?

Reviewer: witch to use a default port of 5000 **on localhost**

Author: Is it even useful to say which port it's using?  I wonder if we should just explain that it will only listen on localhost and will therefore not be functional.

Reviewer: I'd mention the port that is bound, but you could leave it out.

This is how ASP.NET Core prints the address:
```
Now listening on: http://localhost:5000
```

> Apps build using the older [`WebHost.CreateDefaultBuilder`](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/microsoft.aspnetcore.webhost.createdefaultbuilder) API won't respect the new `ASPNETCORE_HTTP_PORTS` environment variable and will therefore switch to using a default port of 5000, now that `ASPNETCORE_URLS` is no longer set automatically.

Reviewer: This is port 5000 on `localhost`, which means the port is no longer accessible outside the container.

A user can change the code of their app, or they can set `ASPNETCORE_URLS` to `http://*:8080` to match the port exposed by the base .NET 8 base image.

> Apps build using the older [`WebHost.CreateDefaultBuilder`](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/microsoft.aspnetcore.webhost.createdefaultbuilder) API won't respect the new `ASPNETCORE_HTTP_PORTS` environment variable and will therefore switch to using a default port of 5000, now that `ASPNETCORE_URLS` is no longer set automatically.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Apps built using the older <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.WebHost.CreateDefaultBuilder?displayProperty=nameWithType> API won't respect the new `ASPNETCORE_HTTP_PORTS` environment variable. And now that `ASPNETCORE_URLS` is no longer set automatically, they'll switch to use a default port of 5000.
```

Author: I wondered what the right way to make those links was, but I saw other occurrences of "https://learn.microsoft.com" in the docs and got confused.  Thanks!

Author: I made this change via my own suggestion after accidentally introducing a merge conflict.  Sorry!

> Apps build using the older [`WebHost.CreateDefaultBuilder`](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/microsoft.aspnetcore.webhost.createdefaultbuilder) API won't respect the new `ASPNETCORE_HTTP_PORTS` environment variable and will therefore switch to using a default port of 5000, now that `ASPNETCORE_URLS` is no longer set automatically.

Author: ```suggestion
Apps build using the older [`WebHost.CreateDefaultBuilder`](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/microsoft.aspnetcore.webhost.createdefaultbuilder) API won't respect the new `ASPNETCORE_HTTP_PORTS` environment variable and will therefore switch to using a default port of 5000, which is not accessible outside the container, now that `ASPNETCORE_URLS` is no longer set automatically.
```

Author: @tmds Is this what you were going for?

> Apps build using the older [`WebHost.CreateDefaultBuilder`](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/microsoft.aspnetcore.webhost.createdefaultbuilder) API won't respect the new `ASPNETCORE_HTTP_PORTS` environment variable and will therefore switch to using a default port of 5000, which is not accessible outside the container, now that `ASPNETCORE_URLS` is no longer set automatically.

Author: ```suggestion
Apps built using the older <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.WebHost.CreateDefaultBuilder?displayProperty=nameWithType> API won't respect the new `ASPNETCORE_HTTP_PORTS` environment variable. And now that `ASPNETCORE_URLS` is no longer set automatically, they'll switch to use a default port of 5000, which is not accessible outside the container.
```

> Apps build using the older [`WebHost.CreateDefaultBuilder`](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/microsoft.aspnetcore.webhost.createdefaultbuilder) API won't respect the new `ASPNETCORE_HTTP_PORTS` environment variable and will therefore switch to using a default port of 5000, which is not accessible outside the container, now that `ASPNETCORE_URLS` is no longer set automatically.

Author: ```suggestion
Apps built using the older <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.WebHost.CreateDefaultBuilder?displayProperty=nameWithType> API won't respect the new `ASPNETCORE_HTTP_PORTS` environment variable. And now that `ASPNETCORE_URLS` is no longer set automatically, they'll switch to use a default port of 5000.
```

Author: I accidentally accepted my suggestion, rather than @gewarren's.

- Recommended: Explicitly set the `ASPNETCORE_HTTP_PORTS`, `ASPNETCORE_HTTPS_PORTS`, and `ASPNETCORE_URLS` environment variables to the desired port. Example: `docker run --rm -it -p 9999:80 -e ASPNETCORE_HTTP_PORTS=80 <my-app>`
- Update existing commands and configuration that rely on the expected default port of port 80 to reference port 8080 instead. Example: `docker run --rm -it -p 9999:8080 <my-app>`

> If your app was built using the older <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.WebHost.CreateDefaultBuilder?displayProperty=nameWithType> method, either set `ASPNETCORE_URLS` (not `ASPNETCORE_HTTP_PORTS`) or update the expected default port of port 80 to reference port 5000 instead.

Author: ```suggestion
If your app was built using the older <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.WebHost.CreateDefaultBuilder?displayProperty=nameWithType> method, set `ASPNETCORE_URLS` (not `ASPNETCORE_HTTP_PORTS`) - updating the expected default port won't work since port 5000 is not accessible outside the container.
```

Author: And this @tmds?

Reviewer: > If your app was built using the older WebHost API, set the `ASPNETCORE_URLS` environment variable to configure the port to expose. For example, to expose port 8080 set `ASPNETCORE_URLS` to `http://*:8080`.

> Apps build using the older [`WebHost.CreateDefaultBuilder`](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/microsoft.aspnetcore.webhost.createdefaultbuilder) will need to either set `ASPNETCORE_URLS` (not `ASPNETCORE_HTTP_PORTS`) or update the expected default port of port 80 to reference port 5000 instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your app was built using the older <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.WebHost.CreateDefaultBuilder?displayProperty=nameWithType> method, either set `ASPNETCORE_URLS` (not `ASPNETCORE_HTTP_PORTS`) or update the expected default port of port 80 to reference port 5000 instead.
```

> Apps build using the older [`WebHost.CreateDefaultBuilder`](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/microsoft.aspnetcore.webhost.createdefaultbuilder) will need to either set `ASPNETCORE_URLS` (not `ASPNETCORE_HTTP_PORTS`) or update the expected default port of port 80 to reference port 5000 instead.

Reviewer 3: I believe this is incorrect. Port 5000 is loopback so a port mapping of `8000:5000` won't work as expected. Right?

Reviewer: Right. This matches my comment: https://github.com/dotnet/docs/pull/37661#discussion_r1367603520

Users must either call `.UseUrls("http://*:8080")` or set `ASPNETCORE_URLS=http://*:8080` to set the port to expose.

Author: I've proposed new text.
